server/README.md, before:

# Polis
pol.is an AI powered sentiment gathering platform. More organic than surveys, less effort than focus groups.

If you don't want to deploy your own instance of Polis, you can sign up for our SaaS version (complete with advanced report functionality) [here](https://pol.is/home).
Polis [can be easily embedded](http://docs.pol.is/usage/Embedding.html) on your page as an iframe.

## Installation

### Dependencies

* PostgreSql `(>= 9.5.4.1)`
* Node `6.11.1`
We recommend installing [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) so you can easily switch between your favorite flavors of node.
* NPM `3.3.8`

### Setup

1. Create a new datbase. You can name it whatever you please.
    ```sh
    create database polis;
    ```
    Depending on your environment and postgresql version, you may instead need to run something like `createdb polis` or `sudo -u postgres createdb polis` to get this to work.
1. Connect to the new database then run `postgres/db_setup_draft.sql` in its shell
    ```
    \connect polis;
    \i postgres/db_setup_draft.sql`;
    ```
    You can also separately run `psql -d polis -f postgres/db_setup_draft.sql` from the shell.
1. Create development envs file
    ```sh
    $ cp .env_dev_local_db_template .env_dev
    ```
1. Update database connection settings in `.env_dev`. Replace the username, password, and database_name in the DATABASE_URL
    ```
    export DATABASE_URL=postgres://your_pg_username:your_pg_password@localhost:5432/your_pg_database_name
    ```
    Note that in some instances you may find that your postgres port isn't 5432 and you will need to figure out what this is.
1. Note that for running in "dev mode" on a local machine, in order to avoid http -> https rerouting and other
    issues, you'll want to run with `export DEV_MODE=true`.
1. Install or set Node version.
    ```sh
    # Install
    $ nvm install 10.9.0

    # Set correct node version.
    $ nvm use 10.9.0
    ```
1. Install depedencies
    ```sh
    $ npm install
    ```
1. Run the start-up script. This will start the server.
    ```sh
    $ ./x
    ```
1. In another shell, start the [polisClientAdmin](https://github.com/pol-is/polisClientAdmin). Follow installation directions on the project README.
    ```
    $ ./x
    ```
1. Navigate to `localhost:5000`. Voila, Polis.


## Optional config

### Google Translate API

Polis can automatically translate comment text for users based on their browser's language preferences.
To turn this on, the following steps need to be taken:

* Set env variable `SHOULD_USE_TRANSLATION_API=true`
* Ensure there are translations in the [strings file](https://github.com/pol-is/polisClientParticipation/tree/master/js/strings) for any language for which you'd like to provide translations (we can't show a button offering a translation if we don't know how to offer said translation).
  Specifically, you must specify the `showTranslationButton`, `hideTranslationButton`, `thirdPartyTranslationDisclaimer` translations, and may wish to refer to the [en_us translation file](https://github.com/pol-is/polisClientParticipation/blob/master/js/strings/en_us.js):
    s.showTranslationButton = "Activate third-party translation";
    s.hideTranslationButton = "Deactivate Translation";
    s.thirdPartyTranslationDisclaimer = "Translation provided by a third party";
* Authentication: You'll have to obtain Google API credential files from Google.
  You should be able to obtain a file called something like `GoogleCredsMasterCopy.json` and run `node bin/stringifyGoogleCreds.js GoogleCredsMasterCopy.json` in order to produce a value for the `GOOGLE_CREDS_STRINGIFIED` environment variable.

Commit message:

update deployment instructions in docs/deployment.md and READMEs (#375)
1. Update link to client-report component
2. Add note about referring to relevant Dockerfile for correct package versions.
3. Remove an optionalDependency of server/package.json that doesn't seem to exist on github anymore (fixes #25)

server/README.md, after:

# Polis
pol.is an AI powered sentiment gathering platform. More organic than surveys, less effort than focus groups.

If you don't want to deploy your own instance of Polis, you can sign up for our SaaS version (complete with advanced report functionality) [here](https://pol.is/home).
Polis [can be easily embedded](http://docs.pol.is/usage/Embedding.html) on your page as an iframe.

## Installation

The below instructions are no longer officially supported; if you'd like to use them as a reference, we suggest you check out the official [Dockerfile](Dockerfile) to understand the latest build process and specific package versions.

---

### Dependencies

* PostgreSql `(>= 9.5.4.1)`
* Node `6.11.1`
We recommend installing [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) so you can easily switch between your favorite flavors of node.
* NPM `3.3.8`

### Setup

1. Create a new datbase. You can name it whatever you please.
    ```sh
    create database polis;
    ```
    Depending on your environment and postgresql version, you may instead need to run something like `createdb polis` or `sudo -u postgres createdb polis` to get this to work.
1. Connect to the new database then run `postgres/db_setup_draft.sql` in its shell
    ```
    \connect polis;
    \i postgres/db_setup_draft.sql`;
    ```
    You can also separately run `psql -d polis -f postgres/db_setup_draft.sql` from the shell.
1. Create development envs file
    ```sh
    $ cp .env_dev_local_db_template .env_dev
    ```
1. Update database connection settings in `.env_dev`. Replace the username, password, and database_name in the DATABASE_URL
    ```
    export DATABASE_URL=postgres://your_pg_username:your_pg_password@localhost:5432/your_pg_database_name
    ```
    Note that in some instances you may find that your postgres port isn't 5432 and you will need to figure out what this is.
1. Note that for running in "dev mode" on a local machine, in order to avoid http -> https rerouting and other
    issues, you'll want to run with `export DEV_MODE=true`.
1. Install or set Node version.
    ```sh
    # Install
    $ nvm install 10.9.0

    # Set correct node version.
    $ nvm use 10.9.0
    ```
1. Install depedencies
    ```sh
    $ npm install
    ```
1. Run the start-up script. This will start the server.
    ```sh
    $ ./x
    ```
1. In another shell, start the [client-admin](../client-admin). Follow installation directions on the component README.
    ```
    $ ./x
    ```
1. Navigate to `localhost:5000`. Voila, Polis.


## Optional config

### Google Translate API

Polis can automatically translate comment text for users based on their browser's language preferences.
To turn this on, the following steps need to be taken:

* Set env variable `SHOULD_USE_TRANSLATION_API=true`
* Ensure there are translations in the [strings file](https://github.com/pol-is/polisClientParticipation/tree/master/js/strings) for any language for which you'd like to provide translations (we can't show a button offering a translation if we don't know how to offer said translation).
  Specifically, you must specify the `showTranslationButton`, `hideTranslationButton`, `thirdPartyTranslationDisclaimer` translations, and may wish to refer to the [en_us translation file](https://github.com/pol-is/polisClientParticipation/blob/master/js/strings/en_us.js):
    s.showTranslationButton = "Activate third-party translation";
    s.hideTranslationButton = "Deactivate Translation";
    s.thirdPartyTranslationDisclaimer = "Translation provided by a third party";
* Authentication: You'll have to obtain Google API credential files from Google.
  You should be able to obtain a file called something like `GoogleCredsMasterCopy.json` and run `node bin/stringifyGoogleCreds.js GoogleCredsMasterCopy.json` in order to produce a value for the `GOOGLE_CREDS_STRINGIFIED` environment variable.
